# Key Features of PawnSpace: 
- **Auto-Accept Loan**: A borrower may choose to provide an “auto-accept” loan amount, interest amount, and payment time. Should a lender agree with these parameters, they may choose to `autoAccept` and initialize the loan immediately at the set parameters. This eliminates the necessity for borrowers to manually accept loans, as well as for lenders to wait for their loan to be accepted, and reduces competition with other lenders' Offers.
- **Tokenization of Offers and Orders**: A key characteristic of PawnSpace is that both the Order and the Offer exist as ERC721 tokens, meaning borrowers and lenders can dispatch their assets while a loan is in progress. Orders are tokenized immediately (before an offer is accepted) enabling the borrower to sell their locked collateral. Active orders represent an obligation to repay a debt, which can also be transferred. Lending offers become tokenized at the time they are accepted by a borrower. 
This allows the lender to transfer their rights to the debt. There are no systemic fees for transferring either the debt or the obligation to repay a debt. This feature enables the borrower and lender to take advantage of market changes while a loan is in progress, removing the barrier of remaining locked into the asset exchange.
This also opens the possibility of creating derivatives on top of PawnSpace loans, as well as participants in a loan to undergo Credit (or Debt) Delegation, to minimize losses if they lost their borrowed funds through either liquidation or some other reason. (We will explore examples and usecases in later sections of this documentation).
- **NFT Price/Valuation Discovery**: A key challenge in NFT markets is the accurate discovery of price. Every NFT is different, and two tokens from the same smart contract may have very different values. PawnSpace facilitates a value discovery system through a “bid and ask” structure, where borrowers wait and see what offers they receive. Inevitably, loan offers are likely to be below sale prices on other platforms, while borrowers will seek out offers as close to comparable sale prices as possible. Stable collateral prices should result in the relative stability of repayments. However, price fluctuations are inevitable, and PawnSpace enables both borrowers and lenders to dispatch the rights to their orders and/or offers at any time (through tokenized representations of their debt/credit). 

## Why do I need to collateralize my NFT?
The current DeFi landscape allows you to put up a liquid asset in order to borrow another liquid asset, both with their associated volatility. This not only adds an added aspect of risk and liquidation for the borrower (when prices get too volatile) but also creates a barrier to what and how much can be borrowed. Collateralization in this manner has its benefits in the DeFi world, but with the tokenization of Real Estate, there becomes a need to collateralize these assets without having to sell them.

Most protocols in the DeFi space focus on Fungible Tokens which conform to the ERC20 standard. For example, if you have Ether, you can use it as collateral to withdraw DAI (a stablecoin). In essence, the user will collateralize one ERC20 token in order to “borrow” a different token. However, most cases require a borrower to possess more value for use as collateral than that will be borrowed. This over-collateralization does help in instant liquidity but limits funding possibilities. In traditional finance, it is similar to borrowing the Japanese Yen using the US Dollar as collateral. Yet, in reality, most debt is collateralized with tangible assets (i.e. real estate, stocks) instead.

Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are an alternative asset class to currencies within the blockchain space. On Ethereum, most NFTs follow either the ERC721 or ERC1155 token standards. NFTs are commonly used to represent unique artwork or as in-game items for use in a game. The potential for NFTs is to enable users to prove ownership of unique assets in a digital form. A mechanism for linking real-world objects such as real-estate and automobiles to NFTs is being actively developed and will come sooner or later to the blockchain.
Due to their unique and individualized nature, pricing of NFTs is as challenging as pricing of real estate; there is currently no way to evaluate its true value beyond a “bid-and-ask” approach. The need for a universal and unbiased DeFi NFT trading product is ever in demand.

Some people pay not prefer fractionalizing their NFTs in pools for liquidity since they lose control/ownership of it, but they do not want to sell their NFT in the open market either. PawnSpace acts as a gateway for borrowers and lenders to safely and mutually agree on loan conditions and carry them out with smart contracts. 

**Example**

Jacob wants to invest in and try out a new DeFi protocol but does not have enough liquidity on hand to do so.  He is no longer comfortable taking out loans on AAVE as it would put his Health Factor in danger. Jacob however has some Decentraland Real Estate that he owns. He knows that his NFT real estate is really valuable and wants to keep ownership of it long term and hence cannot afford to sell it in the open market. Jacob decides to use PawnSpace and list his NFT as collateral for a valuation & interest rate he deems is fair. Luckily, Belle an NFT & Decentraland Enthusiast sees Jacob's listing and feels that the valuation of the NFT is fair/undervalued and is willing to risk giving her funds to Jacob with the NFT as collateral in case of default. Belle "Auto-Accepts" Jacob's Loan Order, and the loan takes place smoothly. Jacob receives his funds and tries to make profits on the new DeFi protocol he wanted to try out. He uses some of the gains to pay back the interest, gives back the principal and keeps the rest as profit. Jacob is happy as he receives his NFT back from escrow when he closes the loan. Belle is happy to get back her principal + interest from lending the loan.
